NMS-14346: Document SNMP oid varbind pattern matching (#5041)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/admin/webui/mib.adoc

= SNMP MIB Compiler

> Management Information Base (MIB) files are text files written in xref:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASN.1[Abstract Syntax Notation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Management Information Base (MIB) files are text files written in https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASN.1[Abstract Syntax Notation].
```

They describe Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) elements for specific devices.
By default, {page-component-title} includes an extensive list of MIB definitions from a number of vendors.
You will only need to import MIB files for unformatted events as part of configuring SNMP traps and collection.

You can parse SNMP MIB definitions and create {page-component-title} event definitions from any `TRAP-TYPE` and/or `NOTIFICATION-TYPE` macros they contain through the UI.
You can also generate data collection definitions from `OBJECT-TYPE` symbols defined in a MIB file.

> Two command line utilities, `mib2events` and `mib2opennms`, are also available to help make event definitions from MIB definitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two command line utilities, `mib2events` and `mib2opennms`, are also available to help create event definitions from MIB definitions.
```

Reviewer 3: mib2events was archived a long time ago:  https://github.com/OpenNMS-Archives/mib2events

I don't think we need to keep any reference to it in the docs; it's dead.

Using the UI editor achieves similar results to using `mib2events`.
We do not recommend using using `mib2opennms`, as it produces more bus errors than event definitions.

[[mib-import]]

To import a MIB file and create event definitions, follow these steps:

. Save the vendor MIB file to a location available to your local workstation.
The MIB file does not need to be accessible by the server.
. In {page-component-title}, click the gears icon and select *Additional Tools -> SNMP MIB Compiler*.
. Click *Upload MIB*.
. Select the MIB file and click *Open*.
. Right-click the file and choose *Compile MIB*.
. If the log area displays an error (usually a missing dependency), you need to correct the error to compile the MIB file successfully.
.. Determine the type of error (dependency, file syntax).
.. Google the name of the missing content, save it as a text file, upload it, and compile again.
+
AND/OR
+
.. Right-click the file and choose *Edit MIB*.

> .. Edit the file to address the error, click *Save*, and run the compile again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Edit the file to address the error, click *Save*, and compile it again.
```

. Continue to edit the file until it compiles successfully.
. Right-click on the MIB from which you want to generate an event and choose *Generate Events* or *Generate Data Collection*, as appropriate.
. If desired, modify the name of the UEI base with the vendor name for easier troubleshooting and click *Configure*.
. Click *Save Events File* to save them to the `event.conf` file.

> If you were getting unformatted events, you will now get formatted ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you were getting unformatted events, they will now be formatted.
```
